the camera gave me the psychological
permission slips to do that right so if
I was doing that same thing ranting and
raving to myself without somebody
filming me then there'd be no difference
between me and the crazy man right so
it's always been about finding ways to
legitimize these meanderings and diving
into free association which is what
these rifts are in my videos it's it's
its stream of consciousness in a very
real sense I try to put myself in an
altered state before I do it and you
talk about flow you know whether you're
in a freestyle rapper and flow or a jazz
musician or an elite athlete flow is
characterized by getting outside
yourself and by outside yourself I mean
beyond the monkey mind beyond the inner
chatter beyond the inner critic and the
questioning mind this excessive
rumination and self-consciousness it
keeps you deliberating whether you
should ever get out and do something you
know just overthinking and too much
scenario planning too much neocortical
hardware as jamie wheel calls it cold
the sacks and error messages running on
repeat in your brain and holding you
back I mean we've all suffered from
anxiety and self-consciousness and even
depression all stem from excessive
rumination but when you finally catch
that wave and you're the surfer there's
no time to think anymore you just start
being the doer and the seer merge the
other thing that happens when you're in
flow is your sense of time disappear so
there's selflessness there's
timelessness there's a sense of
effortlessness right and flow and
there's a sense of information richness
the kind of associations you're able to
make right creativity is connecting
things increases and for somebody like
me whose disposition is timid and who
would clearly identify in my my
childhood as somebody who was really
self-conscious like just thinks too much
right sometimes in a way that was not
useful to me socially and/or creatively
I was a stiff I was uptight I was the
guy who never danced at parties right
so everybody's having ecstatic moment of
no-mind on the dance floor and I'm just
thinking
do that do it worried about what other
people think and so on and so forth and
you know sometimes it takes finding the
right tool or instrument or medium that
you fall in love with so much that is
stronger than your self-consciousness in
your resistance so that you can finally
break through
[Music]